1.	Nature: Web design is very creative in nature while web development very technical in nature. In Web design, the more importance is given to design while in web development more importance is given to technical aspects.
2.	Use: Web Design is used for designing a website. In Web designing, it is decided how the website look and what should be the layout of the website while web development is used for making a website run nicely and provide functionality to a website.
3.	How it is seen by user: web design is front-end of a website that’s why user is able to see it nicely while web development mostly is back-end work which a user is not able to see.
4.	Web Development is very Essential:Web development is very essential for a website to working and without web development their will be no use of having web design because the structure of a website is created using html which is made using web development. Therefore, Without Web Development there is no importance of web designing.
5.	Skills Required: Web designs requires a good knowledge of Scripting Frameworks, JavaScript, Adobe Dreamweaver for making a multi-feather front-end Applications while web developers require a knowledge of computer languages like Java, ASP, PHP, Python, machine learning, Structured Query Language(SQL), the development of APIs for interacting with database tools, objects, agile systems analysis and server architecture, etc.
6.	Web Design is very important for business: Web Design is very important for business because for every business getting the attraction of a user is very important and with the help of good designed websites it becomes easier to get user interaction. Through web development we can make many websites but they are of no use if they don’t get user attraction.
7.	Types: Web Designers are of three types: User Experience (UX), User Interface (UI) and Visual Web Designers while Web Developers are of two types: front-end and back-end Web Developers.
8.	Importance:Web Design helps industries to attract users to their websites through good looks and feels of the website while without Web Development their will be no website so for creating a website web development is must. Web Development also helps in providing good functionality to websites.
9.	Work: Web Designer designs the layout and designs of the website for the web developer and by looking at the layout and designs made by the web designer, web developer makes the website. Web Designers work is to make the website look attractive to the user while web developer role is to make that website run nicely.
10.	Interdependent:Web Designers make transforms ideas into visual appealing designs and web developers transforms the appealing designs into fully functional websites.
11.	Search Engine Optimization: Web Design plays a very crucial role in providing good search rankings for a website because users attracted by the design and looks of the website while web development does not play that important role in search rankings.
Web Design is based on looks and features and how a website will be seen to a user. There are millions of sites around the world and everybody wants his website to look beautiful and distinct from other websites depending on user needs. Web Designing is used for making a website artistic in nature and helps in relating websites with aspects that are pleasing to users eyes. Web Designers main aim is to good website layout and design so as to attract users. It is very important to have web design in website because it is part which is used for attracting users and fulfils users meets.
Web Development consists of all the programming and software that is needed for making smooth and useful. Web Development generally refers to the back-end work of a website. The main objective of web development is to develop a website in such a way that the user feels good about the website and gets a good experience being on the website. Developers are the programmers whose work is to give life to a web designer’s layout, web developer use the mark-up and programming languages to write a code for the webpage. It is the work of the web developers to replicate the exact same model that has been made by the web designers. Web development aims to make a web site work smoothly. Web Development is very important because without development a website cannot be made.

Web Designing Course  

